Add CITEseq postprocessing to QC report (#343)
AlexsLemonade/scpca-nf: templates/qc_report/qc_report.rmd

library(SingleCellExperiment)
library(dplyr)
library(ggplot2)
library(patchwork)

# Set default ggplot theme
theme_set(

>   theme_bw() +theme(plot.margin = margin(rep(20, 4)), 
>                     strip.background = element_rect(fill = 'transparent'))

Reviewer: Just formatting
```suggestion
  theme_bw() +
  theme(plot.margin = margin(rep(20, 4)), 
        strip.background = element_rect(fill = 'transparent'))
```

library(SingleCellExperiment)
library(dplyr)
library(ggplot2)
library(patchwork)

# Set default ggplot theme
theme_set(theme_bw() +

>           theme(plot.margin = margin(rep(20, 4))))

Author: done in https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/scpca-nf/pull/343/commits/ab677de1bb8b5e26894d1e3ce49bb0ddb63f5374

```{r }
# extract sce metadata containing processing information as table
unfiltered_meta <- metadata(unfiltered_sce)

sample_information <- tibble::tibble(
  "Library id" = library_id,
  "Sample id" = paste(sample_id, collapse = ", "),
  "Tech version" = format(unfiltered_meta$tech_version), # format to keep nulls
  "Data modalities" = paste(modalities, collapse = ", "),
  "Cells reported by alevin-fry" =
    format(unfiltered_meta$af_num_cells, big.mark = ',', scientific = FALSE),
  "Number of genes assayed" =
    format(nrow(unfiltered_sce), big.mark = ',', scientific = FALSE),
  "Number of RNA-seq reads sequenced" =
    format(unfiltered_meta$total_reads, big.mark = ',', scientific = FALSE),
  "Percent of RNA-seq reads mapped to transcripts" =
    paste0(round((unfiltered_meta$mapped_reads/unfiltered_meta$total_reads) *100, 2), "%")
)

if (has_adt) {

>   adt_exp <- altExp(processed_sce, "adt")

Author: noting this is needed for UMAPs, and it has no other effect on output.

Author: Noting this was not, indeed, true since `has_processed` could be false! It was fixed in recent commits.

  )

# if processed sce exists add filtering and normalization table
if (has_processed) {
  processed_meta <- metadata(processed_sce)
  

>   # TODO: Do we want to separate RNA and ADT rows? ADT is always the same, so may not be needed, but 

Author: The reason I split it is really only because I worried it would look confusing, especially since the header for this section is RNA-sequencing. Of course, RNA is also being filtered, just that ADT information is being used to determine the filtering... @allyhawkins, any stylistic opinions here? 

I definitely take your point about future breakage, though! I had thought at one point about whether we might actually want two different metadata fields for this (such as, `scpca_filter_method_rna` and `scpca_filter_method_adt`), but that will already break enough code to not be worth it! Plus, while we need to keep track of which RNA filtering method was used, we only have 1 ADT filtering method so there's less ambiguity.

## Removing low quality cells

The below plot highlights cells that were removed prior to normalization and dimensionality reduction.
Cells that should be removed based on RNA counts are those that are identified to be low quality cells, such as cells with high probability of being compromised.
The method of filtering is indicated above the plot as either `miQC` or `Minimum gene cutoff`. 
If `miQC`, cells below the specified probability compromised cutoff and above the minimum number of unique genes identified are kept for downstream analyses. 
If only a `Minimum gene cutoff` is used, then `miQC` is not used and only those cells that pass the minimum number of unique genes identified threshold are retained. 
The dotted vertical line indicates the minimum gene cutoff used for filtering. 

```{r eval = has_cite, results='asis'}
glue::glue(

> "Next, additional low quality cells were removed based on ADT counts (<code>cleanTagCounts</code>), such that cells with high levels of ambient contamination and/or isotype control tags (if present) were removed."

Reviewer: I think you can still use markdown here. Eitehr way, in keeping with previous usage, we should probably make this a full reference with a link to the package.

I'm also splitting into two sentences here. 

Update: I just realized that you were probably referring to the text label above with your code! That is fine, but now that I think about it, we should probably make that more descriptive, so that the `scpca_filter_method` encodes whether negative controls were used or not. 

```suggestion
"Next, additional low quality cells were removed based on ADT counts ([`DropletUtils::cleanTagCounts()`](https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/DropletUtils.html)).
Cells with high levels of ambient contamination and/or isotype control tags (if present) were removed."
```
